The hardest part about this game will be the translation from simple english to
the anglish + manner of speaking. But this isn't the core gameplay.

I need to iterate and play test this thing quickly.

Core gameplay is wiki prompts that disappear and the allows the user to type the
names of hypertext to go to a new wiki prompt. There is an in game timer. Maybe
text comes word by word and disappears when complete. Interrupting can be
seen as rude. Words only stay appeared for like 10 seconds or something like
that. After scolling down to a certain point the text either scrolls up or
restarts at the top. This stuff doesn't matter though; it's just display stuff.

In the play test there are two characters who will fight over some conflict.

---

Gameplay:

Player presented with a tenitive prompt of text with essentially embedded hyper
text that can be clicked on or typed. Pages aren't in a tree and a character is
a collection of simple english wiki prompts (likely only 150 words max) and a
manner of speaking. I'm thinking now that characters are premade but their
knowledge various from game to game and each game only has a limited sample of
them.

A disproportionate amount of university students survived do to better means of
isolation and by their view their viture. Bodies were burnt the sick were kill
in mass. Only about 150 or so people had the potiential to survive. You got sick
before the killings and were the only one to recover from the plague.

Of the 150 potiential surviviors one or several were the intentional or
unintentional cause. If intentional then these folk have a better chance at
surviving. Basically there are a set of senerios with interchangable characters
and vastly overlapping clues.

---

Dialog trees are too ambigious. The idea is that it's more like a wiki with some
links require that you walk about or go do a task that takes time. Each word
takes time too and pages are only displayed to the user for a limited amount of
time. There is a certain about of times a person will repeat themself in a time
interval and may ramble a bit before repeating. No leveling up but maybe
preset atrributes like, the following,
likeability: will repeat themselves more and require less for locked links;
fitness: moves faster between areas and completes task quicker;
good memory: balance method of recalling old pages and have pages up for longer.

Also there will a setting to increase or decrease reading times. Effectively a
difficulty setting. Also a language setting which out of the box is simple
english, english, and anglish as the default setting.

Knowing information and passing test questions increases your likeability to
that person.

There is a university in the town of Addle so knowledge from characters is
diverse while being limit in one game do to the plague. No one has left yet
because winter is just ending. People are just one dimension and cold.

---

The main substance of a character is their set of knowledge and to a more minor
degree their manner of speaking. They would then have their relationships to
others (most likely only coming into play at the end). If they feel they had a
part in the plague. Their current emotional state which would effect how they
are currently talking to you and possibly also be an active mechcanic throughout
the end. And finally other motives.

Their will be many how-to's (with variations) written in simple english used in
generating a character's knowledge. Character don't have anything like wisedom:
that isn't within the scope of this game. A character's manner of speaking a key
part of the knowledge generation process.

Maybe combine manner of speaking and mood. Meaning that a character's mood is
constant and likely just depression. Some characters happy to talk of their
know-how and others just annoyed. Characters relationship with you can change in
various ways and the more they like you the more they'll tell you.

Overall the villages will share a base procedurally generated manner of
speaking. The foriegner is your adoptive parent. He's been taking care of you
for something like half a year. He speaks english instead of anglish and the
rational here is that you've pick up on his fancy dialect and he's been teaching
you things. Now that you are fully recovered from the plague (the only one to do
so) he thinks it best if you start interacting more with the rest of the village
because he will be moving on soon and you must find a place.

--- START HERE

Okay game is procedurally generated within the structure of a village that just
went through a plague and game will end in a witch hunt. Your play as a curious,
orphaned child trying to find his or her place in the remaining village. Most
conversations with be of a informational nature and there will be emphasized
words that you can ask about. You can ask what any word means and depending on
the person they may define it. The evidence and information you may need to calm
the hysteria at the end of the game or to help determine the witch will not be
things obvious but might be emphasized text. The actual set of living people and
cause of the epidemic will be what is procedural generated has well has what
technics people use for their trade.

Their will always be a scientifically minded foriegner who after hearing word of
the epidemic came to study it and help those inflicted. He or she is most likely
to be the victem of the witch hunt. In some games it may just be that the
foriegner knowingly contaminated the village in order to study it. The word
choice of the people in the game will should also be procedurally generated and
should not be telling to who or what done it.

The game will be in Anglish so a first time player will have the vocabulary of
the child they are playing. Also this may disguise the strange lingos generated
procedurally. The game should be easy to mod to change the language of use a 
pigeon to help in learning a language although this won't be an initial feature.
Most lingos for people should be in simplified English with Anglish vocab but
some folk will use more poetic or obfuscated lanaugue.

There isn't a wrong way to play this game or a notable bad ending if you don't
do the right things. This game should be curiousity driven; the game should be a
gamified wiki page with personal narrative. All schedules and choices of
characters are preset at the beginning of the game. While your actions effect
things in minor ways, and you can collect items, the main way you effect people
is by what they think of you. There is a game clock that does run through 
conversations but the majority of the game time that passes actions is not done
in real time (eg walk across the village, or collecting tree bark).

At the start of the witch hunt you actions start mattering a lot and what people
think about you is basically set as well as your ability to collect items. Time
is very limited in this part of the game so conversation will happen very
quickly and there won't be much moving around: at the start of the witch hunt
everything is in real time.

Game can be paused at anytime be pressing ESC: the screen goes black and the
audio stops. The game can be saved at any moment but there can only be one save,
for a given playthrough, and upon loading you are not longer able to load the
save again. The game should have a very frequent autosave and therefore ability
to minimize the effect of a game crash.

